hello everyone
so today i am going to be doing another
q a
but this time i'm going to be answering
questions solely on
cambridge the university that i attended
for three years
and i've just graduated from i asked for
questions earlier this week on my
instagram account
and thank you to everyone who sent in
questions there were so many questions
i'm gonna try get through as many as i
possibly can i've got a short list
on my laptop here and the shortlist is
long it's a long list
not a short list i've tried to group the
questions up into groups of similar
questions
and yeah the plan is to give you all the
inside info
you want to hear about cambridge
university
really what's happening here is i'm
clinging on to my university experience
i'm not quite ready to let it go yet and
so i'm going to keep talking about it
for as long as possible cambridge is
part of my personality at this point
okay i'm going to dive right in with the
first question
is it as demanding and stressful as the
media
presents it as
yeah i don't think anything fully
prepares you for
how intense the workload is at cambridge
and i think especially when
starting the workload can hit you a bit
like a ton of bricks
but very quickly it becomes the normal
and to be honest you just get on and do
it
i didn't really think much into it like
yes i was working every weekend yes i
worked most evenings
but that's what everyone did you kind of
get used to the feeling of always being
slightly behind
and always having a mountain of work to
do honestly
one of the things i'm not going to miss
about cambridge is
the constant feeling of pressure every
week the next question
is did you ever consider dropping out
and no i didn't because
even in my most stressful times and
trust me i had a few meltdowns during my
time at cambridge
probably on average about once a term i
would be
in absolute tears over the work
we should bear in mind here that i am a
extra
emotional stressy person i'm a little
bit high strung at times i think i get
it from my mum
but none of these times did i ever
consider dropping out
i think it's just because i'm such a
determined person
and once i take on a challenge such as a
degree at cambridge
i am not going to give up on that i
always wanted to prove
myself wrong and i wanted to prove that
i could do it
by the way i'm not saying that dropping
out is
necessarily a terrible thing if you are
truly unhappy
then you know dropping out is okay but
just
for me if i had dropped out it would
just be
lack of belief in myself and also for
the most part
even though i had these few meltdowns
majority of my time at cambridge was
so much fun the good times far
outweighed the bad
next question is what expectations does
cambridge want for your gcse results and
a level
results for the entry requirements for
all of their degree courses
you should check out the university of
cambridge website
but in general cambridge would be
looking for
a's and a stars or i think they're
called sevens eights and nines now but
having
said that they take into account the
school you went to
so really it's very much about how you
do compared to other people at your
school
sometimes cambridge are flexible with
enter requirements i
actually did not meet the entry
requirements they specified
in my offer i got two a stars and two
a's at a level
but my a stars were in the wrong
subjects
so initially i didn't have my place
confirmed until
i had to send off more detailed
breakdowns of my results and
they said they'd take me anyway the next
question is
what is the most important element of an
application
and there isn't one so all of the
colleges at cambridge
take a holistic approach to applications
so they take into account your personal
statement your reference from your
teacher
your admissions assessment your
interview and
they don't put a load of waiting on one
and not the rest
they look at all of the information they
have in order to make their decisions
the next question is a big one and it is
what does cambridge university look for
in a candidate
i am not cambridge university so this is
just
my thoughts on the matter i think
they're looking for someone who
really loves their subject above all
enthusiasm of the subject
is most important and also someone who
can
think critically and is teachable
next question is how do you decide which
college to apply to
the first thing i'm going to say is that
college decision
is not that important pretty much
everyone you speak to in cambridge
loves their own college and thinks it's
the best
so there's no such thing as a bad
cambridge college i think the important
things you might want to look at with
colleges
is location some colleges are closer
to different departments than others
also if you prefer
an older college or a more modern
college
if you want a bigger college or a
smaller college is something else you
might want to consider because some
colleges have more
undergraduates than others gosh there's
so many other factors actually you could
consider
but really i think the best thing you
can do is listen to students who have
attended the college themselves
the colleges all have their own websites
which will
definitely have sections on them about
student experiences at the college which
i'd really recommend looking at when
choosing a college the next question is
are some colleges harder to get into
than others yeah because some colleges
get more applications than others and
then another question i got was
did admissions ratio i.e how competitive
places were
affect which college you chose and
yeah it did to an extent cambridge
actually has
a pool system which is supposed to make
sure
that the best candidates get offered
places no matter which college they
apply to
if one college has a load of really
strong applicants
and a lot of them deserve places but the
callers just can't fit them all in
they put some applicants in a pool
which other colleges can then draw the
applicants out of and offer them a place
at a different college however i don't
think this system is ever going to be
100 effective
and i was definitely put off applying to
some of the
more famous colleges like trinity and
saint john's
because of the admissions ratio and i
knew
a lot more people applied to them
however i didn't really think
much further than that i applied to
jesus college
not knowing what the admissions ratio
was and i didn't really
look into it that much with other
colleges either i don't think it's a
good idea to play
the statistics game it's best to just
apply somewhere
where you can see yourself having a nice
time
the next question is are you still in
contact with your friends
yes i am you definitely
make friends for life at cambridge we
have regular
video calls and our group chat is active
every day
i haven't seen any of them except from
hannah
since march hopefully soon
i'll be able to be reunited with them
but
we all live quite far apart and
obviously i'm not going back
to cambridge this year whereas almost
all of them
bar one are going back for another year
and they're all moving in again next
month
and i'm not jealous i'm not jealous i'm
not jealous i'm not jealous
the next question is do friendships tend
to be
with people from the same college or a
mixture of colleges
so because you're living with people
from your college
and going to hall with people from your
college
and colleges run a lot of their own
social events
you do get to know the people in your
own college
quicker and they're normally the first
people you meet
i did have a few friends from outside of
college
but the vast majority of my friends were
from jesus college in my own college
and i think that's quite common for most
people to have most of their close
friends in their own college
but there are some exceptions and it's
very much possible to make friends
across colleges
next question is there a social
hierarchy of popularity
in uni like it's there in schools not so
much to be honest
there's still cliques i would say
and some people are more cliquey than
others
but i wouldn't say there's the popular
kids
and the dorks next question is which
college does the best formal
so i've been to six different college
formals
and there's 31 colleges so i
may not have experienced the best formal
there is in cambridge
but out of the ones i've been to maybe
i'm biased but i think jesus formal is
quite good
just because it is so reasonably priced
and the food is consistently
good the next question is which
cambridge colleges
have the most outside space it tends to
be the colleges that are more
out of town that have more space jesus
college
in particular has massive grounds
because
all of the sports pitches are on site
although
churchill college also has quite big
grounds
hamilton college has quite big grounds
next question
what was your favorite part of joining
the societies and being
on the jesus college rowing team i think
it was
the sense of belonging to something
almost straight away when you get there
i joined the jesus college boat club
two weeks in maybe to my time at
cambridge
and three weeks in i i was one of them i
was a jcbc member for life
and you get to meet a much wider variety
of people
within your college and people from
different years you can make friends
with
and there were always frequent social
activities it was just a way of
broadening social circles
next question is are there many
international students
in cambridge and yes there are lots of
study a huge variety of courses at
cambridge i
usually get questions about the
application process
for international applicants and i'm
sorry i don't have much
information on that because it's not the
application process i went through
myself i wouldn't want to tell you
anything wrong
so i will just refer you to the
cambridge university website
out of your three years at cambridge
which was your favorite
this is a hard question i don't know
they all had their
ups and downs i think my third year was
my favorite
just because i knew everyone so
well by that point my house was amazing
my housemates were amazing
i was studying the most interesting part
of my degree course
yeah i think it really all came together
in third year to be honest with you
it's just a shame it was cut short
really but having said that i settled in
really quickly in first year and there
was definitely a thrill
in moving out for the first time and
completely starting fresh
the next question is what is the
fanciest slash pushest thing
you experienced at cambridge i don't
think there was any one singular thing
but it was more the frequency of
said posh fancy things we would be going
to drinks receptions every time with our
course mates
we had quite a number of garden parties
there were balls at the end of the year
there were just so many things to dress
up
for i mean sure at first it was a little
bit weird going into hall and having a
gong sounded and then latin grace being
red
but you get used to it and really it's
quite a nice lifestyle a particular
highlight was the desserts evening in my
first year at the masters lodge
that was really good the next question
is what was the scariest thing
you did at cambridge it's got to be
cambridge exams
the next question is did you enjoy
living in cambridge
yes i mean i don't think i'll get
another opportunity again
to live right in the heart of that city
everything was on your doorstep
to get to sainsbury's it was literally a
two minute walk
it's probably a five minute walk into
the center of town
there were lots of shopping centers that
i could get to in five minutes
i could cycle to lectures and get there
in 10 minutes
the nightclubs were literally a five
minute walk away
everything was just so close together
the kind of
center of cambridge is that kind of
inner student bubble
and you forget about all the residential
areas on the edges of cambridge
the next question is does everyone ride
a bike to lectures
not everyone but a lot of people
do cambridge is a cycling city you know
there's so many cyclists on the roads i
started cambridge not being a confident
cyclist but i
quickly found that cycling in cambridge
is nothing to worry about and there's
also loads of psychopaths around
cambridge
but having said that i did have friends
at cambridge who did not cycle
the whole time they were there and they
got on just fine as long as you like
walking
that's okay the next question is are
students pressured to answer questions
during lectures it depends on the
lecturer
and their lecturing style never in a
lecture did i
personally get picked on to answer a
question and i never saw a lecturer
personally pick someone out in the
lecture theater and say
you answer this question but lecturers
do
sometimes ask questions some lecturers
more often than others in my third year
i had a lecturer
who very regularly asked questions just
because they wanted to make sure that
everyone was keeping up but
some people are more confident to speak
in lectures
than others i was never really that
confident to shout out the answer in
lectures
however in supervisions it's a
completely different story you you will
definitely be pressured to answer
questions in supervisions the next
question
is did you hear people's stomachs rumble
in lectures
and did it ever happen to you of course
i heard people's stomachs rumble in
lectures we're hungry students you know
and yes it definitely happened to me
when i hadn't had a proper breakfast
and maybe i'd been out coxing before the
lecture
i might be sitting in the lecture
dreaming of
my coffee and cake i was gonna have
afterwards next question
is this might sound stupid but do you
call supervisors
slash your director of studies by their
first name
or doctor mr mrs doesn't sound stupid at
all
very good question we call them by their
first
names you really are kind of seen as
equals to them
and sometimes you see your supervisors
or your director of studies and fellows
of the college
in the college bar and it's weird you're
like ah they're my teacher
but at this point you're all adults so
you're on first name terms you know and
you can say hi have a chat with them the
next question
is is there some competition about
results between
students i think particularly with the
higher achievers it does get a bit more
competitive
and it's just inevitable when you put a
load of overachievers in the same place
and everyone's used to being top of the
class
of course it's going to be a little bit
competitive but for the most part
people are willing to help each other
out and
help each other through the course the
next question is
was your course mainly male and how did
you feel about it so i did
physical natural sciences then
specialized in
physics and maths in my second year and
then astrophysics in my third year
so yes my course was majority male
but i didn't mind that much because i've
always got on quite well with boys
and i'm not too faced by what other
people are doing like
if there aren't many women in physics
that just spurs me on more to want to be
a woman in physics you know
the next question is best places to go
slash things to do
as a student in cambridge obviously go
to lots of formals make friends at other
colleges and then go to different
college formals because that's always
fun
go punting eventually when the weather's
good that is
always a fun group activity the roost
cafe at jesus college
is amazing try it at some point the next
question
is how much will we miss out because of
covid
and how can we make the most of it i'm a
jesus fresher
congratulations on choosing the best
college
honestly i wouldn't worry too much about
the teaching at all because
they've had a whole summer to prepare
for this they've got it under control
online lectures has the benefit that you
can
have a lion and do lectures from bed
however it's the society's side of
things that isn't going to be the same
you know
you're not going to have the big
freshers fair you're not going to get
the free pizza from the pizza stand at
freshers fair
pizza 241 that's what you chant and you
get free pizza
and that is not happening this year and
i don't know what they're doing with
formals
will they run formals socially distanced
i suppose restaurants are open so they
might do
but this is cambridge they are gonna
have some sort of replacement in place
to make sure you
settle in nicely you still have the best
time cambridge is always a little bit
over the top
so i would have faith that they're going
to organize some fun things for you
the next question is what sort of
clothes do i need to buy for formals
what do people wear to box slash
clubbing so
for formals nice dresses lots of nice
dresses
or a jumpsuit i used to wear a black
jumpsuit quite a lot
you can even get away with skimpier
dresses because for formals you always
put your gown on over the top so the
gown always makes any
outfit look more reasonable and
presentable
and i mean boys have it easy you just
wear suits
also heels if you want to wear heels
nice jewelry and accessories you know
it's your opportunity to dress up make
the most of it as for what people wear
to books
and clubbing it's usually quite casual
whenever i went out clubbing
in cambridge i was always in converse
jeans and a t-shirt if i went out
clubbing after a formal we would all go
back to our rooms to get changed into
our casual gear before going out
as for box they're often fancy dress so
definitely get involved with the theme
for the fancy dress and yeah i just hope
that
we get a vaccine soon and bops and
clubbing can
recommence and the final question is
did you have any problems related to
noise levels and difficulty sleeping
in dorms sometimes in my first year i
had an
issue because i always had lectures
early on a saturday morning
but most of the cohort had friday night
as their party night
looking back it wasn't anything
unreasonable
i myself was probably guilty of being
noisy sometimes and keeping people up
but the thing is by the time i got to
third year i had no problem
with telling people to be quiet because
i knew the other people in my house so
well that i could just
say what i was thinking honestly it
might be worth taking some earplugs to
uni
because sometimes the noise levels can
be high i think that answers that
question
i'm gonna end it here because my voice
is going thank you for watching today's
video
if you enjoyed it i would really
appreciate if you give the video a like
and subscribe to my channel also follow
my instagram
which is at underscore page underscore y
and i will definitely
be doing more q a's and asking for
questions over there in the future
and that's it from me today
[Music]
hi
you